---
layout: page
title: Catherine Jutzeler, PhD
permalink: /about/
---
Catherine Jutzeler is a [Swiss National Science Foundation](http://p3.snf.ch/project-186101)Ambizione group leader and senior assistant in Prof. Borgwardt’s MLCB research group. After completing her BSc and MSc in pharmaceutical science at the University of Basel, she pursued her doctoral studies jointly at ETH Zurich and the University Clinic Balgrist applying neurophysiological and neuroimaging methods to assess the neural plasticity in patients recovering from spinal cord injury. She was then awarded with multiple postdoctoral fellowships (Craig H. Nielsen, Michael Smith Research Foundation, International Research for Paraplegia) to conduct her postdoctoral studies in the field of neuro-pharmacoepidemiology and data science at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada. Recently, Dr. Jutzeler was awarded with the highly prestigious Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) Ambizione grant to lead her own research group at the Machine Learning and Computational Biology Laboratory at the ETH Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering in Basel. Her group’s research aims to identify causes, risk factors, and biomarkers of neurological disease progression, including Alzheimer’s disease, spinal cord injury, and traumatic brain injury. At the core of her work is a series of prospective and retrospective investigations that integrate genetic, biochemical, clinical assessments, and medication history with both traditional epidemiological approaches and machine-learning algorithms. Dr. Jutzeler’s innovative and award-winning research has already led to the discovery of novel targets for the treatment of neurological diseases, as well as novel predictors of disease progression. Based on her expertise, she has been consulted by other researchers and pharmaceutical companies for advice related to clinical trial design, observational studies (including sample size calculations, analysis plans, data requests), and systematic reviews (including meta-analysis). To pursue her research. Dr. Jutzeler has been awarded numerous research grants including support from the Swiss National Science Foundation (Switzerland), Craig H. Neilsen Foundation (USA), and Wings for Life Foundation (Austria).

